# Advanced CSS
  - CSS outline
  - CSS Cursor
  - CSS Overflow
  - CSS virtual formatting
  - CSS Display
  - CSS Visibility
  - CSS Position
  - CSS Layers
  - CSS Float
  - CSS Alignment
  - CSS Pseudo-Classes
  - CSS Pseudo-elements
  - CSS Media Types
  - CSS Sprites
  - CSS Opacity
  - CSS Attribute Selectors
  - CSS Validation

## CSS Outline Properties
- The CSS outline properties allow you to define an outline area around an element's box.
- An outline is a line that is drawn just outside the border edge of the elements. Outlines are generally used to indicate focus or active states of the elements such as buttons, links, form fields, etc.
- **Outlines Vs Borders**
- An outline looks very similar to the border, but it differs from border in the following ways:
- Outlines do not take up space, because they always placed on top of the box of the element 
- which may cause them to overlap other elements on the page.
- Unlike borders, outlines won't allow us to set each edge to a different width, or set different colors and styles for each edge. An outline is the same on all sides.
- Outlines do not have any impact on surrounding elements apart from overlapping.
- Unlike borders, outlines do not change the size or position of the element.
- Outlines may be non-rectangular, but you cannot create circular outlines.

- The outline-style property can have one of the following values: **none, solid, dashed, dotted, double, inset, outset, groove, and ridge, none**

## Cursor
- You can change the cursor type 
## Overflow
- There may be a situation when the content of an element might be larger than the dimensions of the box itself. For example given width and height properties did not allow enough room to accommodate the content of the element.
## CSS Display
- The display property controls the box's type generated by an element.
- **CSS Display Property**
- The CSS specification defines the default display value for all the elements, e.g. the <div> element is rendered as block, while the <span> element is displayed inline.
- There are different type of display **bolck, inline, none, Inline-Block, 

## CSS Visibility
- You can use the visibility property to control whether an element is visible or not. This property can take one of the following values listed in the table below:
- **visible**	Default value. The box and its contents are visible.
- **hidden**	The box and its content are invisible, but still affect the layout of the page.
-**collapse**	This value causes the entire row or column to be removed from the display. This value is used for row, row group, column, and column group elements.
- **inherit**	Specifies that the value of the visibility property should be inherited from the parent element i.e. takes the same visibility value as specified for its parent.
- The style rule **visibility: collapse;** however removes the internal table elements, but it does not affect the layout of the table in any other way. The space normally occupied by the table elements will be filled by the subsequent siblings.

## CSS Position
- The position property defines how an element will be positioned on a page.
- There are different type of positioning **static, relative, absolute, fixed**

## CSS Layer
- The CSS z-index property can be used in conjugation with the position property to create an effect of layers like Photoshop.

## CSS Float
- The CSS float property specifies whether a box should float or not.
- **Floating Elements with CSS**
- You can float elements to the left or right, but only applies to the elements that generate boxes that are not absolutely positioned. Any element that follows the floated element will flow around the floated element on the other side. 
- **Properties**
- **left**	The element floats on the left side of its containing block.
- **right**	The element floats on the right side of its containing block.
- **none**	Removes the float property from an element.

## Allignment
- CSS has several properties that can be used to align elements on web pages.
- **Text Alignment**
- Text inside the block-level elements can aligned by setting the text-align properly.
- for More details follow **https://www.tutorialrepublic.com/css-tutorial/css-alignment.php**


